- [Instructor] Okay, so now that we have seen
JSP standard actions, expression language,
JSTL, let's say that you want to implement a requirement
which is not allowing you to choose any tag from JST.
Let's say that's something that you want to implement
for which there is no tag existing
under the Java server pages tag library.
So, in that case, you can make your own tag library
which is the custom tag library defined
by the developer, right.
So, custom tag library is basically going
to consist of a user-defined JSP element
and, when it's a library,
of course it can contain one
or more tags bundled together
and you can bundle them in a jar file
and make sure that the jar file is used
by a few other projects
so that it promotes re-useability as well.
Now, in order to develop a custom tag library,
you of course need to write your own tags
but as we saw, that when we write a tag on a JSP,
it's not just a tag.
There's some Java code that executes behind the tag, right?
So whenever, the JSP executes and runs,
the tag makes sure that there's some Java
code run behind the scenes.
Now, when we write our own tag library
which means we will have to define what that tag is,
what is the name, what are the attributes to the tag,
and then what is the Java code
that is going to run behind the scenes
when that tag executes on your JSP?
So, as for the informational folder tags in your library,
you will have to define a descriptor file.
Now, that descriptor is a tag library descriptor
which is of course an XML document
and that's going to contain the information
about the entire tag library as a whole
and it also gives you the information about each tag
that is going to be contained in the library.
So, you may choose to develop a set of tags.
Each tag will have it's own unique job to do
and each tag will also have it's attributes
so all of this information you're going
to describe in a tag library descriptor
which is an XML document.
Now, the tag library descriptor file names
must have the extension of a .tld
so it's an XML document but the extension will be a .tld
and it must be placed
or packaged inside the WEB-INF directory.
So we already know this directory,
the web information, and we'll have
to place the file under this directory
or maybe a sub-directory of the WAR file.
So you've seen the WAR structure in the first videos
of this post so we know what the WAR structure looks like
and it is necessary that you place your tld and a WEB-INF.
The custom tag may look like this.
So, let's say you have an angled bracket
and my tags, colon, format date.
So, maybe format date is the name of the tag
and my tags is the prefix that you have chosen
for your tag library.
Let's say when you talked about JSTL,
we had c as the prefix for the code module,
we had fmt as the prefix for the fmt module,
so likewise, you can define prefix for your own tag library.
So, what are the tasks
that a custom tag library could perform?
You could produce some output
like say you could run some logic
and then the entire output of
that logic would be printed as an output of the JSP
or let's say you could have just an empty tag
which will perform some server-side operations
for the JSP page or maybe you could have an empty tag
which creates an object that can be referenced
by the rest of the page like say a scripting variable
or something like that
or you could also have an empty tag
which could insert content into some portions of the page.
So basically, not only these four,
but there are many other tasks
that a custom tag library can do
so, basically, when you know that there is a job
that you have in your requirements specification,
which cannot be done by a tag from the JSTL library,
then you go ahead and develop your own.
Okay, so now let's talk about the tag handler API.
So, as we said, when we put a tag on the JSP,
it's also going to execute some Java code behind the scenes.
So this is exactly we need to understand
what kind of class you will have to write.
Now, when you talk about a class
that you have to write for the custom tag,
it's basically talking about the tag handler API.
Now, whenever a JSP contains a custom tag
and that JSP is going to be converted
into the sublet class in the translation process,
then that tag that you've written out
in the JSP is converted to the methods
on the tag handler class that you've written for that tag.
That's how it works, right.
So it is going to call the necessary operations
on your tag handler class and then execute
and print the output for you.
So, the custom tag handler class
that I write in my application,
must use one of the following.
You either use a classic handler
which consists of the tag, body tag,
and iteration tag interfaces,
or you could use the simple tag handlers
which consists of the simple tag interface.
An even simpler version will be
to just extend the abstract class called simple tag support
that already implements the simple tag interface.
So, when you actually extend an abstract class,
what happens is that it already comes ahead
with some convenient functionality
that you really don't have to sit
and implement so you just to focus
on the specific implementation that is going
to go against your custom tag.
So, the easiest way is to just extend
that abstract class of simple tag support
and go ahead and provide an implementation
to those methods.